---
title: "Install"
date: 2023-03-10
---

Download single binary file to your server and start service in few simple steps.

## Requirements

- Any Linux based operation system
- x86 64bit CPU
- Connection to the internet on your server

::note
In this guide we use the **curl** command to download files. Most Linux distribution has pre-installed **curl**
::

## Install Alta

Download binary file and set execute permission. On the server you may use next command:

```
curl -Lo /usr/bin/alta https://cesbo.com/alta-latest
chmod +x /usr/bin/alta
```

Installation completed, now you may check version number:

```
alta version
```

## Start service

Initialization wizard prepares new service on your system. Each service has owns configuration file, management port, and unique name. Launch initialization wizard with next command:

```
sudo alta init
```

:youtube[Cesbo Alta initialization wizard]{id="cnp3IsYHSZw"}

- **Service name** - name of the service in the system;
- **Config path** - full path to the configuration file. Wizard makes parent directories as needed;
- **Admin login** - login for first administrator, after configuration you can create additional users in the web interface;
- **Admin password** - password for administrator. If you specify own password then on the next step wizard asks for password confirmation. Please note that password is not showing in the console on typing;
- **Management Port** - port for API and web interface. Could be defined with local interface address as well, for example `127.0.0.1:8100`;
- **Add service to systemd** - service will be registered in the Systemd - a service manager for the Linux based systems. This option useful to control service status, check service logs, and launch service on system startup;
- **Launch service on system startup** - this option available only with Systemd. Service will be launched automatically on system startup;
- **Start service** - start service immediately after wizard.

On your server you may launch as many services as you want. Just use unique service name and management port. Read more:
[How To Use Systemctl to Manage Alta Services](../../admin-guide/administration/manage-services)

## Login to Web Interface

Your service is ready to use. Now you may connect to the Cesbo Alta Web Interface using a web browser - Chrome, Safari, or Firefox. In example above we keep default port `8100` so interface address will be `http://server-address:8100` where server-address is a server IP or hostname.
To log in to the web interface, use the default login `admin` and password which has been defined in wizard.

Read next article about [Alta Web Interface](web-interface)
