---
title: "DVB Receiving issues"
date: 2023-02-28
---

Detailed guide on troubleshooting DVB reception issues, covering essential aspects such as signal quality, error rates, equipment setup, and interference. Learn practical tips and techniques to diagnose and resolve common problems, ensuring a seamless digital TV viewing experience.

## All works fine until server reboot

Probably Linux kernel has been updated with autoupdate or manually. Try to reinstall driver.

## failed to open frontend: Device or resource busy

Adapter is taken by another process. Maybe Astra started twice.

You may check wich process uses Astra with next command:

```
lsof | grep adapter0
```

Example output:

```
astra 23068 ... /dev/dvb/adapter31/dvr0
astra 23068 ... /dev/dvb/adapter31/frontend0
```

- `astra` - process name
- `23068` - process PID
- `/dev/dvb/adapter32/...` - path to the adapter

## failed to open frontend: No such file or directory

The first step is to check whether the DVB adapters are present in the system using the command:

```
ls /dev/dvb
```

If the command shows an error message "No such file or directory", the first thing to do is to check if the hardware is available to the system using the command:

```
lspci | grep Multimedia
```

If the adapters are properly connected to the PCIe slot, you should see a listing of the PCIe adapters like this:

```
01:00.0 Multimedia controller: Digital Devices GmbH Cine V7
```

Try to reinstall the driver. If this doesn't help, please contact the hardware vendor.

## Signal is fine, but channels not working

This issue common for adapters by DigitalDevices. Check dmesg output for i2c errors:

```
dmesg | grep i2c
```

if you see messages like i2c_write error then turn off MSI (Message Signaled Interrupts) in the driver:

Open file `/etc/modprobe.d/ddbridge.conf` in any text editor. Find line `options ddbridge`. After the `ddbridge` append `msi=0` option. For example:

```
options ddbridge msi=0 fmode=1
```

## cxd2878: SLtoAIT_BandSetting error

This error may appear in the dmesg log for DVB adapters TBS 6209SE. To resolve this issue set the Bandwidth parameter in the DVB Adapter settings, on the Advanced tab:

- 8MHz for DVB-T or DVB-T2
- 6MHz for ISDB-T
